Kabir/doc 5240 (#2)
kabirsikand/cloudflare-docs-kabir: content/workers/platform/routing/service-bindings.md

---
pcx-content-type: concept
title: Service bindings
---

# Service bindings

> ## About
> Service bindings are an API that facilitate Worker-to-Worker communication via explicit bindings defined in your configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## About Service bindings

Service bindings are an API that facilitate Worker-to-Worker communication via explicit bindings defined in your configuration.
```

> ## About
> Service bindings are an API that facilitate Worker-to-Worker communication via explicit bindings defined in your configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## About Service bindings

Service bindings are an API that facilitate Worker-to-Worker communication via explicit bindings defined in your configuration.
```

> A Service binding allows you to send HTTP requests to another Worker without those requests going over the Internet. The request immediately invokes the downstream Worker, reducing latency as compared to a request to a third-party service. You can invoke other Workers directly from your code; making it possible to communicate with shared services managed by other teams with differing test and release processes. Those services do not need to be hooked up to publicly accessible endpoints; as such Service bindings facilitate private services to communicate with one another.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Service binding allows you to send HTTP requests to another Worker without those requests going over the Internet. The request immediately invokes the downstream Worker, reducing latency as compared to a request to a third-party service. You can invoke other Workers directly from your code. This makes it possible to communicate with shared services managed by other teams with differing test and release processes. Those services do not need to be hooked up to publicly accessible endpoints. Service bindings facilitate private services to communicate with one another.
```

> A Service binding allows you to send HTTP requests to another Worker without those requests going over the Internet. The request immediately invokes the downstream Worker, reducing latency as compared to a request to a third-party service. You can invoke other Workers directly from your code; making it possible to communicate with shared services managed by other teams with differing test and release processes. Those services do not need to be hooked up to publicly accessible endpoints; as such Service bindings facilitate private services to communicate with one another.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Service binding allows you to send HTTP requests to another Worker without those requests going over the Internet. The request immediately invokes the downstream Worker, reducing latency as compared to a request to a third-party service. You can invoke other Workers directly from your code. This makes it possible to communicate with shared services managed by other teams with differing test and release processes. Those services do not need to be hooked up to publicly accessible endpoints. Service bindings facilitate private services to communicate with one another.
```

> Service bindings allow you to:
> * Segment multiple use cases into separate Workers Services that can be explicitly invoked from your code.
> * Achieve better composability on the Workers platform using service-oriented architecture.
> * Create private microservices, to be conditionally invoked from other edge-facing services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Service bindings allow you to:

* Segment multiple use cases into separate Workers Services that can be explicitly invoked from your code.
* Achieve better composability on the Workers platform using service-oriented architecture.
* Create private microservices, to be conditionally invoked from other edge-facing services.
```

> Service bindings allow you to:
> * Segment multiple use cases into separate Workers Services that can be explicitly invoked from your code.
> * Achieve better composability on the Workers platform using service-oriented architecture.
> * Create private microservices, to be conditionally invoked from other edge-facing services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Service bindings allow you to:

* Segment multiple use cases into separate Workers Services that can be explicitly invoked from your code.
* Achieve better composability on the Workers platform using service-oriented architecture.
* Create private microservices, to be conditionally invoked from other edge-facing services.
```

> ### Interface
> Service bindings use the standard [Fetch](../../runtime-apis/fetch) API. You can continue to use your existing utilities and libraries - a Workers Service binding will trigger a [FetchEvent](../../runtime-apis/fetch-event). While the interface among Service bindings is HTTP, the networking is not. Unlike the typical microservice architecture, where services communicate over a network and can suffer from latency or interruption, Service bindings are a zero-cost abstraction. When one Worker invokes another, there is no network delay and the request is executed immediately.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Interface

Service bindings use the standard [Fetch](../../runtime-apis/fetch) API. You can continue to use your existing utilities and libraries - a Workers Service binding will trigger a [FetchEvent](../../runtime-apis/fetch-event). While the interface among Service bindings is HTTP, the networking is not. Unlike the typical microservice architecture, where services communicate over a network and can suffer from latency or interruption, Service bindings are a zero-cost abstraction. When one Worker invokes another, there is no network delay and the request is executed immediately.
```

![Service bindings are a zero-cost abstraction](../media/../routing/media/service-bindings-comparison.png)

> ### Shared Resources
> Workers connected to one another via Service bindings share the CPU resources of the top-level request. A single thread is allocated and reused amongst these Workers. This means no idle resources are wasted while work is performed across various Workers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Shared Resources

Workers connected to one another via Service bindings share the CPU resources of the top-level request. A single thread is allocated and reused among these Workers. This means no idle resources are wasted while work is performed across various Workers.
```

> ### Setting a Service binding
> You can manage Workers Service bindings in [**Workers**](https://dash.cloudflare.com/?zone=workers) > your **Worker** > **Settings**> **Variables** > **Service bindings** > **Edit variables**. You can also change the environment of a Workers Service binding, so you can target a specific version of a Workers Service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Setting a Service binding

You can manage Workers Service bindings in [**Workers**](https://dash.cloudflare.com/?zone=workers) > your **Worker** > **Settings**> **Variables** > **Service bindings** > **Edit variables**. You can also change the environment of a Workers Service binding, so you can target a specific version of a Workers Service.
```

![To configure a Service binding, head to your Worker's Settings tab](../media/service-bindings-config.png)

> Workers bound to your Worker will be listed in the [**Workers**](https://dash.cloudflare.com/?zone=workers) > your **Worker** > **Triggers** tab, under **Bound Services**. Your team can easily view cross-service dependencies in this manner.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Workers bound to your Worker can be found in the Cloudflare dashboard **Account Home**> [**Workers**](https://dash.cloudflare.com/?zone=workers) > **your Worker** > **Triggers** > **Bound Services**. Your team can easily view cross-service dependencies in this manner.
```

I know that Service bindings is all about Worker to Worker comms, but also just want to check here that the first sentence is intentionally written out as 'Workers bound to your Worker'?

![Your team can view cross-service dependencies in the Triggers tab](../media/service-bindings-triggers.png)

## Composing an example Worker

### Authentication Workers Service

> Following authentication Workers Service code responds with `200` in case `x-custom-token` request matches `SECRET_TOKEN` secret binding.

Reviewer: "The following"? This sentence needs revision, it's very abrupt and has no 'what is the developer doing, how is the developer doing it, why is the developer doing it' structure.

> Following authentication Workers Service code responds with `200` in case `x-custom-token` request matches `SECRET_TOKEN` secret binding.

Reviewer: "The following"? This sentence needs revision, it's very abrupt and has no 'what is the developer doing, how is the developer doing it, why is the developer doing it' structure.

```js
export default {
  async fetch(request, env) {
    // Read x-custom-token header and make sure it matches SECRET_TOKEN
    if (request.headers.get('x-custom-token') === env.SECRET_TOKEN) {
      return new Response('Request allowed', { status: 200 });
    } else {
      return new Response('x-custom-token does not match, request not allowed', { status: 403 });
    }
  },
};
```

> This authentication Workers Service does not need to have a `*.workers.dev` or other domain endpoint, nor does it need an HTTP Route: it is accessed through a Workers Service binding from the other Worker directly. The authentication Worker is, effectively, a private Worker Service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This authentication Workers Service does not need to have a `*.workers.dev` or other domain endpoint, nor does it need an HTTP Route. The authentication Workers Service is accessed through a Workers Service binding from the other Worker directly. The authentication Worker is, effectively, a private Worker Service.
```

> This authentication Workers Service does not need to have a `*.workers.dev` or other domain endpoint, nor does it need an HTTP Route: it is accessed through a Workers Service binding from the other Worker directly. The authentication Worker is, effectively, a private Worker Service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This authentication Workers Service does not need to have a `*.workers.dev` or other domain endpoint, nor does it need an HTTP Route. The authentical Workers Service is accessed through a Workers Service binding from the other Worker directly. The authentication Worker is, effectively, a private Worker Service.
```

### Gateway Worker and Service bindings usage

> In order to bind and call the [authentication Workers Service above](/workers/#authentication-service), the application Workers Service needs to set up a Workers Service binding. You can manage Workers Service bindings in [**Workers**](https://dash.cloudflare.com/?zone=workers) > your **Worker** > **Settings**> **Variables** > **Service bindings** > **Edit variables**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to bind and call the [authentication Workers Service above](/workers/#authentication-service), the application Workers Service needs to set up a Workers Service binding. You can manage Workers Service bindings in the Cloudflare dashboard by going to **Account Home** > [**Workers**](https://dash.cloudflare.com/?zone=workers) > **your Worker** > **Settings**> **Variables** > **Service bindings** > **Edit variables**.
```

> In order to bind and call the [authentication Workers Service above](/workers/#authentication-service), the application Workers Service needs to set up a Workers Service binding. You can manage Workers Service bindings in [**Workers**](https://dash.cloudflare.com/?zone=workers) > your **Worker** > **Settings**> **Variables** > **Service bindings** > **Edit variables**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to bind and call the [authentication Workers Service above](/workers/#authentication-service), the application Workers Service needs to set up a Workers Service binding. You can manage Workers Service bindings in the Cloudflare dashboard by going to **Account Home** > [**Workers**](https://dash.cloudflare.com/?zone=workers) > **your Worker** > **Settings**> **Variables** > **Service bindings** > **Edit variables**.
```
